In the book brown girl dreaming by Jacqueline Woodson writing represents different things in Jacqueline's life like infinity, independence, and who she can grow up to be. Primarily, Jaqueline wants to be able to write all on her own, independently. The first example includes when Jacqueline learns how to write the letter J with some help from her sister at three years old and she wants to be able to do it all on her own. This makes her feel more independent as one day she will know all the letters and be able to turn them into words all on her own. Another example is when she writes her first book which is about butterflies. Once she finishes writing the book she is proud of herself and she knows that she is becoming more independent as a person and a writer. Meanwhile writing also gives Jacqueline a sense of infinity. When her brother says that butterflies don't even live that long she thinks “But on paper, things can live forever. On paper, a butterfly never dies” (Woodson 249). This shows that butterflies stay alive in the writing for an infinite amount of time. Likewise, writing gives her more of a sense of infinite opportunities because she gets the idea that she can use the letters and words that she learns and turn them into an infinite number of combinations for books, poems, and stories. Finally, Jaqueline gets the idea that she can grow up to be whoever she wants to be when she finds the book Stevie. Jacqueline thinks, “I’d never believed that someone who looked like me could be in the pages of the book that someone who looked like me had a story” (Woodson 228). Jacqueline realizes that even though she is black she can do something great like telling her story too . Also, after her teacher reads the book The Selfish Giant to Jacqueline she gets the idea of being who she wants to be when she memorizes the whole book without even trying to she realizes that words are her brilliance or special talent. In conclusion, writing represents different things in Jacqueline's life like infinity, independence and who she can grow up to be. Infinity, independence and growing up help her grow to love writing because without independence, infinity and growing to be who she wants to be she wouldn’t have been able to satisfy herself with writing and she wouldn’t have pushed herself to grow as a person and a writer.
Jacqueline's family experiences sadness and loss throughout this time Jacqueline learns to harness her imagination throughout writing. Writing gives her hope; storytelling basically empowers her to change her relationship to her own memories and making sure they dont have the power to cause her pain. Jacqueline's life as a writer allows her to think about her life in complex ways and find peace. Jacqueline's unique childhood allows her to write. Despite her initial difficulties learning to write, Jacqueline has mastered reading and writing. Writing is really important in Jaqualines life because it's a little bit of a challenge for her. Writing gives her something to work towards. Reading is hard for Jacqueline because she has dyslexia. dyslexia also connects to her ability with writing but she works through it and is actually very great at it. 1 example that she had was I don't know if this totally connects to dyslexia but she went up to the board 1 day and thought it was easy peasy to write her name. Then the teacher said to write it in cursive, Jaqualine did not have the ability to do that so she decided to just write Jackie in cursive because she didn't know how to write Jacqueline. This was probably very embarrassing for Jacqueline because she had to go in front of the class and do this as well as the teacher said “Do you want to go by Jackie now?” and Jaqualine didn't exactly want to go by Jackie at all but she said yes because she wrote it on the board that way because she couldn't write Jacqueline. This is important because it's very important to Jacqueline and this is a big part of her life. They talk about this alot throughout the book and how she is with learning. Jacqueline is very good with story telling too. Jaqualines love of this really shows as well because she gets a lot better by the end of the book. Jacqueline has an impulse towards storytelling and narration. Like I said before, writing is basically a vacation for Jaqualines brain, mind and just in general from other things like I have been talking about. Honestly the main focus of the book is story telling and Esperanza loves to do it. Storytelling is definitely connected to writing because when you tell a story it can be someone else's story but also you can write your own stories. 
In Brown Girl Dreaming by Jacqueline Woodson, Jacqueline is empowered and influenced by the writing and the literature around her. One example of this is how writing offers Jacqueline an infinite number of possibilities and worlds that she can create and fall into. To Jacqueline, specifically when she was younger, there seemed to be so many combinations of words and letters that to her there appeared to be a boundless and never-ending flow of words and the possibilities that they could create. This also appears when Jacqueline is learning to write the first letter of her name with the help of her older sister, Odella. When Jacqueline asks if the words will ever end, Odella answers no and Jacqueline thinks, Odella is “All of five years old now, and promising me infinity” (Woodson 63), showing how writing is a promising world for her to dive into. Jacqueline feels that words are more than just sounds, to her, they are infinity. This idea also appears on Saturday nights when Jacqueline and Odella’s grandmother will do their hair for the week. During the long and tedious process, Odella reads to Jacqueline stories, such as The Silver Skates, The House at Pooh Corner, Swiss Family Robinson, and many more. Jacqueline thinks “My sister’s clear soft voice opens up the world to me,” (84) and “But the rest of me is already leaving, the rest of me is already gone.” (85). The stories Odella reads transport Jacqueline out of the kitchen chair and into a different place entirely starting a spark inside her. Secondly, literature creates things for Jacqueline that she has yet to see and transports her into different realities, and provokes emotions that she didn’t know words could convey. When Jacqueline is in school and her teacher reads a poem by Robert Frost about a birch tree, a tree that she has never seen is suddenly real to her and this notion of words being able to make something and the beauty of the poem brings her to tears. Jacqueline says “And the tree is suddenly real to us” (223). Simple words create something beautiful and meaningful for Jacqueline. Also when Jacqueline’s teacher reads a book called The Selfish Giant, it provokes such emotion from Jacqueline that she begs her mother to borrow the book from the library. Even though the story is sad Jacqueline falls in love with the characters and the fact that the story makes her feel intense emotion. She memorizes the book and when she is told to read something to the class she recites The Selfish Giant from memory and makes the class feel a wealth of emotion. Finally, Jacqueline creates stories and tells them like they are real because to her they are real “As real as air to me,” (247). This is displayed when Jacqueline’s uncle brings the family presents and gives Jacqueline’s sister a pair of earrings because she is brilliant. When this happens, Jacqueline makes up a story about a girl who does well on a test. When her uncle asks if she made her story up she thinks “In my own head, it’s real as anything. In my head all kinds of people are doing all kinds of things'' (172). Another example of this is when Jacqueline’s uncle is telling her nursery rhymes like Jack and Jill and Little Miss. Muffet, but by the end of each nursery rhyme, Jacqueline is telling Uncle Robert a story about herself and how her life relates to the characters. Every story that Jacqueline tells is not true and Jacqueline's but her uncle tells her to keep telling stories. To conclude Jacqueline’s writing and her experiences with literature became a vehicle for her storytelling and helped her to express herself and thoughts and opinions about the Revolution through her pieces.
In Brown Girl Dreaming by Jacqueline Woodson, Jacqueline learns many life lessons growing up shape her future. One of the main people who influenced her is her Uncle Robert. He is one of Jacqueline's main reasons she starts writing and specifically to keep making up stories; “Keep making up stories” (Woodson 176). Despite her mothers disapproval, because she says it's lying, Jacqueline continues. Also, Jacqueline looks up to Robert, for example when he comes over to their house he has an afro and she begs her mom to have one just like him, “When Robert comes over with his hair blown out into an afro, I beg my mother for the same hairstyle,” (259). Another significant influence is her Grandpa Gunner. Even though their grandpa doesn’t believe in god like she does, he works hard and shows them that he doesn’t need prayers to get what he wants. Also, he encourages her to treat people like she wants to be treated, “I work hard, he says. I treat people like I want to be treated,” (124). He teaches Jacqueline the importance of independence and perseverance. The last person that helps form Jacqueline’s choices is her Grandma. Her grandma was the one who taught her about Jehovah's Witness which is a huge part of her life. She teaches her to be grateful for everything and that everything that happens is a gift. Also, her grandma enlightens her with many important life lessons when she is young that she only starts to understand when she is older, but they still make a big impact on her life. In conclusion, Jacqueline is profoundly influenced by the people around her, particularly her Uncle Robert, Grandpa Gunner, and he Grandma. Their guidance and examples help her decide how she wants to live her life.
In Brown Girl Dreaming by Jaqueline Woodson, writing and literature represent infinite possibilities to Jacqueline. This happens both in the writing of others and in her own. First of all Jacqueline discovers the infinite possibilities of writing from the moment she begins to write. When she learns to write the letter J, she asks her sister if the words will ever end, and Odella says "nope". This is when she first learns of the infinite possibilities in literature. Another example is when she gets her composition notebook, and she is showing so much joy and excitement that her sister cannot even understand the level of her elation. After she writes her name she knows she can write anything, which motivates her to follow her dreams and continue her passion. She also finds infinite possibilities in other people's writing. Her sister reads to her, and she describes the feeling of getting lost in the story as infinite. She thinks, "My sister's soft voice opens up the world to me... my whole body still. But the rest of me is already leaving, the rest of me is already gone" (Woodson, 84) Also, when she reads Stevie and Me, she sees herself in the book which makes her think she can have a story. Jaqueline thinks, "I'd never have believed that someone who looked like me could be in the pages of a book that someone who looked like me even had a story" (228). Another instance of this is when she reads The Selfish Giant. She is moved to tears because of it. However, she cannot stop herself from reading, because she loves it so much. She also memorizes the story, and this turns out to be a way that she consumes knowledge. After she hears the birch tree poem, she finds herself overcome with emotion. She has tears welling up in her eyes. She never forgets this experience. Finally, when her teacher critiques her reading ability she does not care. This is because she knows that her way of memorizing words will allow her to keep learning for years to come. She thinks, "But I don't want to read... any way that might make the story disappear too quickly from where it's settling inside my brain... A story I will remember long after I've read it for the second, third, tenth, hundredth time" (226). In Brown Girl Dreaming by Jaqueline Woodson writing and literature represent infinite possibilities to Jacqueline. Writing empowers her to shape her world, reality, and to be whoever or whatever she wants.
In the book Brown Girl Dreaming by Jacquline Woodson memory takes a big role in Jacqueline's life. The first reason memory is so important to Jacquline is because people's memories have shaped her life. For example in the poem “other people’s memory” she explains how her whole family has a different memory about when she was born. Her grandmother, Georgiana, remembers her being born in the morning, her mother remembers her being born in the late afternoon, and her father remembers her being born at night. Her time of birth isn't listed on her birth certificate, “then got lost again amid other people's bad memory”(Woodson 18). She learns from a young age that people have different memories of important events. Another reason memory is important to Jacquline is because she learns how to read by memorizing words and books. In the poem “the selfish giant” Jacquline memorizes The Selfish Giant, by Oscar Wilde. She reads the story over and over again until the story is implanted in her memory and she doesn’t need the book anymore. Then she goes up in front of her class and recites the whole book, all of the kids in her class are amazed. This makes Jacqueline feel special and she realizes that memory and “words are my brilliance” (248).  In addition to memory being helpful to Jacqueline, her memories bring her to her dreams. Jacqueline's dream is to be a writer. She wants to remember everything and write it down. In the poem “mountain song” Jacquline is on her way back from visiting her uncle in jail and she starts to write a song in her head. She repeats the song over and over again in fear that she will forget it and lose the memory. As she sings the song she starts to cry thinking about her memories with her grandfather and her uncle. She thinks about holding on to the memory of the song and if she keeps the memory she can go home and write it down,”i’ll be a writer. I’ll be able to hold on to each moment, each memory everything” (274). In the poem “every wish, one dream”, again, Jacquline explains about how her wish is always the same. Every memory brings her closer to her dream, she wishes on every dandelion, every star, and every eyelash, to be a writer. In conclusion Jacqueline's memory helps her in many ways throughout life and nothing in her life is possible without her memory and her dream.
In Brown Girl Dreaming a lot of people influence Jacqueline Woodson while she is in her early stages of life. One is Daddy, also known as Gunnar. One of the ways he influences her is by comforting her and making her feel wanted, normal, and telling her that she is his favorite for always staying with him. When Jacqueline is taking care of Daddy in his last stages of life he says “You’re going to be fine you know that” (Woodson 235). This gives Jacqueline hope and confidence to be whoever she wants to be. Another way that Daddy influences Jacqueline is by making her question her religion as a Jehovah’s Witness. Jehovah’s Witnesses are people who believe in the “new world,” Heaven, so they don’t celebrate anything including Christmas, Halloween, Thanksgiving, and many others. He made her question being a Jehovah’s Witness because they believe he will go to hell when he dies because he doesn’t believe in their religion. Jacqueline loves her grandfather, Gunnar, so much that she doesn’t want him to go to hell. She wants him to go to the new world with her. This influences her to not be a full Jehovah’s Witness because at the end of the book she believes, ”I believe that there is good in each of us no matter who we are and what we believe in.” The second person who influences her a lot is Uncle Robert. The first way he influences her is by going to jail, and it completely changes Uncle Robert. At the end of the book he is Muslim and he doesn’t have an afro. Robert becoming Muslim opened Jacqueline's eyes to a new religion. Another example is that he said she should always keep making stories because it is what makes her who she is (Woodson page 176). He is also telling her to keep wishing because they will always come true. This influences her to ultimately become a writer. The last person is Georgina, also known as her grandmother. She is one of the most important people in Brown Girl Dreaming because she brings being a Jehovah’s Witness into her life which is a huge deal because it basically controls her life. The reason it controls her life is because she has a schedule of everything that she does in a week and it takes upwards to ten hours to do all the studying and praying to be a Jehovah’s Witness. This affects Jacqueline to be a writer because it gave her all the skills she needed such as being dedicated and working hard. She also kept her belief in god through the book which was from her grandmother. All of the people that have been influencing Jacqueline in her life shape her to be the person she becomes.
In Brown Girl Dreaming by Jacqueline Woodson, Uncle Robert, Grandmother Georgiana, and Dell all affect Jackie in very important ways. Grandma Georgiana teaches Jackie that God gives all that she needs. When Jackie’s grandmother begins working a demeaning job for a white family, Grandma Georgiana teaches her that there is no shame in working to provide for loved ones. Grandma Georgiana also decides on Jackie’s religion. Being a Jehovah's Witness means Jackie cannot celebrate Christmas, birthdays, or other holidays. She cannot vote, fight, curse, or even pledge allegience to the flag. Whenever her classmates are celebrating she has to step out of the room, and this makes her feel like an outsider. However, this  also teaches her discipline and dedication.Even though Jackie isn’t very interested in being a Jehovah’s Witness she still has to practice the self-control the religion requires five days of the week. The discipline she learns helps her writing career in a huge way. This is because while her close family is not supportive  of her interest in story telling, her uncle keeps that passion going. Grandma Georgiana acts as a mother figure for Jackie when her mom is at work. Additionally, Grandma Georgiana  dictates  Jackie’s friendships: when she wants to be friends with her next-door neighbors,her grandmother doesn’t let her. Finally, Jackie’s grandmother  teaches her and her sister what  stories are made up. For context, the people that Jackie is talking to are saying she stepped on a mushroom that was the Devil’s house. They then say he is coming for her because of it. However, all religions are just stories backed up by faith. So Grandma Georgiana teaches Jackie the difference between  what is real religion and what is a made-up story. She says “Don’t believe everything you hear, Jackie. Someday you’ll learn when someone is telling the truth and when they’re just making up stories.” (Woodson114-115), Another example of someone who affects Jacqueline is Uncle Robert. He encourages Jackie to keep making up stories even when her mom doesn't want her to. This is huge for Jackie and without his support, she wouldn’t become a writer. He encourages her to dream and wish, which is a break from her very strict religion. He introduces her to afros, black pride, and the civil rights revolution happening at the time. This is important for Jackie because her grandmother just lets segregation happen to her without fighting back. This leads Jackie to become active in the civil rights movement and to look up to Angela Davis, a black rights activist. Uncle Robert also teaches her about the Muslum religion which she still believes in years later in addition to the religion  her grandmother gave her. Lastly, Dell also influences Jacqueline in very important ways. Dell teaches Jackie  to write at a very young age and introduces her to books and literature. She makes Jackie feel like she lives under her shadow, and she is the big sister who is always being compared to Jackie. This is shown when Jacqueline is compared to Dell. Since Dell is brilliant she thinks that Jackie is as well. When she learns that she isn’t, in Jacqueline's words “she begins to search for brilliance at another desk.” These three characters, Grandma Georgiana, Uncle Robert, and Dell help to shape Jackie’s beliefs and the woman who she becomes.
In the book Brown Girl Dreaming by Jacqueline Woodson, Jacqueline is taught many essential life lessons from the advice and experiences of people in her family, especially from Hope, Dell, and her grandfather. Primarily, Jacqueline’s brother, Hope, gives her the idea that everyone, including her, has a hidden talent, or a “gift from the universe, waiting to be discovered” (Woodson, 233). When Hope is singing on stage, Jacqueline and her family realize that he is an excellent singer. This leads Jacqueline to believe that maybe she, too, has a veiled strength inside of her. Her hidden gift is first revealed when she is asked to read a story to her class. She doesn’t even have to read from a book - she loves stories so much that she memorizes her favorite one, The Selfish Giant, impressing her teacher and peers with her confidence and determination. She states, “And I know now that words are my Tingalayo. (the song that Hope had sung) Words are my brilliance” (248). It is in part because of Hope that Jacqueline gains the confidence to start to experiment with words and think of herself as a writer, going on to do surprising things with this new skill that she discovers. Furthermore, Jacqueline’s sister, Dell, gives her something to aspire towards. She also teaches her to write her name, instigating her association between words and the feeling of infinity or eternity. When Dell is teaching her to write her first letter, Jacqueline states, “How amazing are these words that slowly come to me. How wonderfully on and on they go” (62). When Jacqueline asks Dell if the words will ever end, Dell tells her they will not, “promising [her] infinity” (63). Jacqueline is already beginning to think of words as having limitless or never-ending possibilities. Finally, Jacqueline’s grandfather teaches her that who she is is enough, giving her the confidence to follow her dreams. For example, Jacqueline is often told that she sings off-key. When she sings to her dying grandfather, he says that she is “perfect” (236), assuring her that she is sufficient. He also tells her that she “will be fine” (235), telling her that if she perseveres, she will be successful later on in life. Her grandfather also acts as a father figure for her, reassuring her that she belongs and is important. In conclusion, Jacqueline’s family influences her in various different ways, that shape who she is, and motivate her to follow her dreams, pursue her talents, and simply be who she is. Jacqueline learns the ropes of life through the advice of her grandfather, sister, brother, and other family members, as well as learning to interpret and choose between different belief systems that run through her household.
In Brown Girl Dreaming by Jacqueline Woodson, Jacqueline is influenced and inspired by many people in her life, including her grandmother, Daddy Gunnar, and Dell. Her grandmother influences her life in many ways, especially Jacqueline's religious beliefs. When Jacqueline was first introduced to being a Jehovah's Witness, her grandma taught her how to use her faith in God, saying, “Let the Bible... be your sword and shield" (Woodson 112-113). She and her siblings become Jehovah's Witnesses, their grandma guiding them through the religion and teaching them important lessons. One of these lessons is when she teaches them that they can rely on God to give them what they need and to ask no more than that, meaning they should be grateful for what they have. Everything they do is part of God's plan for them; if they do God's work, they are promised eternity in return. That their current world will burn, but if they believe in God, they will be transported to a new and better world. On the other hand, her religion or grandma can hold them back sometimes; for example, they can’t celebrate holidays or their birthdays, and she often feels like she is different from the other children because of this. For example, at school, she expresses her desire to say the pledge of allegiance without her jealous god looking over them. Another person who influences her maybe even more than her grandmother is her grandpa, Daddy Gunnar. Daddy taught her that if she worked hard, she would get something in return and not rely on others to get what she wanted, unlike what her grandma said. Jacqueline was Daddy's favorite throughout the book, even though she wasn’t as gifted as her sister, Dell. During that time, Jacqueline was struggling with the label of “The other Woodson” and in her sister's shadow, but Daddy said that she would pull through and keep persevering because she was just as perfect and talented as her sister. Daddy said that she will find the thing that she is good at, and to keep doing what she loves Daddy helped her find her passion, which later turns out to be writing. As stated before, Dell is a brilliant, gifted kid and another influence for Jacqueline. Dell is an excellent student and is exceptional at everything; consequently, Jacqueline is constantly compared to her sister, which makes her feel worse. Because of Dell's talent and skill, Jacqueline is overlooked and seen as not gifted. On the other hand, Dell also helped start her love for books and writing. In the chapter “Hair Night,” she expresses how she feels about her sister reading to her and how she loves to pretend to live in the book and experiences it in her mind as her sister reads to her. Then Dell also helped her learn how to write, more specifically her name, which helped spark her interest in writing. In conclusion, she learned so much and learned so much about herself from others. She understands how to use her writing power, that she has a talent that her sister doesn't have, and that she could be two things at once, even if they were the opposite of each other. These people influenced her, shaped the person she would become, and encouraged her along the way. 
In Brown Girl Dreaming by Jacqueline Woodson, Jackie learns a lot of lessons from important people in her life over the course of her youth; Dell, Hope, and Maria all teach Jackie many lessons that will help her throughout the course of her life. First, Dell helps Jacqueline write her first letter - a ‘J’ by guiding Jackie’s hand. Jackie learns her love for reading and writing from Dell, because Dell also shares the same interest. Early on, Dell spends a lot of time reading, and Jackie sees this. Dell is a big reason Jackie becomes a writer.  Dell shows Jackie how to love reading and also sets the bar quite high for school. Dell excels in school herself, and Jackie is always pushed to work harder by being jealous of her sister. Similarly, Hope shows Jackie that there’s still hope for her finding her own talent, when Hope steps on stage and starts singing. He’s normally a really shy kid, but he still goes on stage and shows Jackie that there’s still hope for her finding something she’s good at. Jackie learns a big lesson from Hope when she thinks “There’s something hidden like this in all of us; a small gift from the universe waiting to be discovered” (Woodson 233). Furthermore, Hope teaches Jackie to keep trying, even if she’s not good at something, when he keeps taking things apart, seemingly searching for more to learn. This is another big example of how one of Jackie’s siblings made her career in writing possible. Without Hope, Jackie would have been much less persistent in her writing. Finally, Maria shows Jackie how to appreciate what she has, when they switch food and learn about each other’s cultures. Jackie even learns some Spanish from Maria and they even consider each other family. Again, Jackie learns to appreciate other cultures when she and Maria switched foods. This can affect Jacqueline in the future, when she learns about other religions and cultures. Jackie is shaped by her friends and family. They form her into the person she is, and because of them, she started writing, learned to be brave, have hope, and taught her to be okay with what she has. Her friends and family help her so much, and even led to her writing a book. Her friends and family give her great experiences and takeaways for the rest of her life. She learns that she can live between worlds - Jehovah’s Witness and Muslim, the North and the South, a writer and a listener. She learns to live in a world of writing and books. She learns to be herself.
In Brown Girl Dreaming, Jacqueline Woodson learns a lot of lessons from her grandfather, Gunnar. To begin, he teaches Jacqueline to be proud of herself for who she is. Jacqueline is aware of the fact that people like her were and still are being discriminated against because of their appearance, and because of this she feels a bit like an outsider. However, her grandfather changed her perspective by telling her that she should be proud of who she is, not ashamed. In addition, her ancestors worked hard during the time of slavery and protested until they got what they wanted, so Gunnar told Jacqueline that there is nothing to be ashamed of. Also, when Jacqueline is taking care of her grandfather while he is sick, he says, “You’re my favorite. You’re going to be fine, you know that” (Woodson 235). His words make Jacqueline a lot more confident in herself, knowing that there is someone out there who really cares about her. Next, Gunnar teaches Jacqueline that one must work to get what they want. For example, he loves to work in his garden and gets fresh crops in reward. Jacqueline also learns that she must fight for what is right and what she believes in, which also encourages Jacqueline to start to protest a bit herself, just like her ancestors did, because she believes that brown people should be treated fairly. Jacqueline learns that if she wants this future, she must take action herself. Finally, Jacqueline learns to live life how she wants. Jacqueline’s grandfather doesn’t believe that anyone, including God, should stop him from doing what he wants. Jacqueline, however, has to become a Jehovah’s Witness which changes her whole life, limiting many of the things she can do and making her schedule a lot busier. She dislikes this change, and wishes to be able to live like her grandfather. In addition, when Jacqueline is worried about him not being a Jehovah’s Witness, Gunnar says that he thinks he doesn't have to be a Jehovah’s Witness for God to think he is a good person. Jacqueline’s grandfather believes that anyone should be able to live their life freely, and Jacqueline wants to be able to do that. To conclude, Jacqueline Woodson learns some very important lessons from her grandfather, Gunnar, and those lessons impacted Jacqueline and changed her beliefs and how she thinks of herself. These lessons also motivated her to keep moving forward and try new things, as well as inspired her, making her grandfather a major influence on Jacqueline.
In Brown Girl Dreaming by Jaqueline Woodson, Robert, Georgiana, and Gunnar shaped Jackie’s life and her beliefs. One of the most important people in Jackie’s life is Uncle Robert. He encourages Jackie to “keep making up stories''(Woodson 176), despite her mother’s disapproval. Jackie expresses multiple times throughout the book that her storytelling is what makes her such a good writer, so this moment is vital to her becoming the writer that she is. Visiting Uncle Robert in prison also inspires the “mountain song” poem Jackie makes up, which Odella says is “too good”(269) boosting Jackie’s confidence in her writing. Uncle Robert also informs Jackie about the revolution going on, and pushes her to be a part of it; “Don’t wait for your school to teach you about the revolution. It’s happening on the street”(308). Lastly, Robert introduces the Islamic faith to her, which becomes one of her belief systems. Another extremely impactful person in Jaqueline’s life is Georgiana. Georgiana is a Jehovah’s Witness which causes her to force her beliefs onto her grandchildren, resulting in Jackie becoming one as well. Being a Jehovah's Witness impacts Jackie's social life immensely, making her feel like an outsider. Not only is she not able to say the Pledge of Allegiance, but she can’t participate in holidays such as birthdays, Christmas, or even Halloween. Even though Jackie doesn’t always love her religion, it teaches her discipline and dedication which are vital traits for a writer. Georgiana also puts a lot of faith in her religion, and believes that God will provide for them. One important lesson Georgina teaches Jackie is that there is no shame in providing for your family, no matter how you do that: “I’m not ashamed, cleaning is what I know. I’m not ashamed, if it feeds my children”(55). Finally, Gunnar shapes much of Jaqueline’s life. Along with Georgina, Gunnar makes Jackie question her beliefs, knowing being a Jehovah’s witness also means believing that her grandfather will end up in a different world than her. Additionally, Gunnar encourages Jackie to die for what she believes in, and to fight for what she wants. Contrary to Georgiana, Gunnar believes in getting what you want, even if it’s more than what you need, and not depending on someone else. But most importantly, he convinces Jackie that she will be just fine, and she doesn’t need to change to be perfect to him. Jackie is inspired to do the things she is passionate about by the people in her life. Without them she would not be a part of all the multiple worlds that create her, and she wouldn’t have been introduced to so many different perspectives. 
In the book Brown Girl Dreaming by Jacqueline Woodson, Goergina, Uncle Robert, and Gunner Woodson molded her ideas and life tremendously. First, Gunnar is a vital part of the creation of her belief system, as he made her doubt her Grandmother’s teachings. He made her realize that she didn't want to believe that her and her Grandfather would be separated after death. Conflicting with her Grandmother's lessons, he tells her to live in the present and not to worry about her future. He instructs her to strive for what she wants, not to wait for it to be handed to her, even if what she wants is a bit excessive. These lessons are important because her Grandmother teaches her opposite morals. Along with Gunnar, Goergina plays a major role in shaping Jacqueline's beliefs. Goergina is a Jehovah’s witness, this means that her grandchildren must adopt the same religion. As a witness, this prevents Jacqueline from doing many things a “normal” kid does, like saying the pledge of allegiance or celebrating birthdays. Although Jacqueline feels restrained and envies other kids, being a Jehovah's witness also has many benefits. By being a Jehovah’s witness Jacqueline has learned how to be well disciplined, which is not an easy or quick thing to pick up on. Last, Uncle Robert is an impactful person in her life, as he motivates her to continue as a writer. Uncle Robert apprises Jacqueline about the American Revolution, this encourages her to join in on it while shaping her view on the subject. Moreover, Uncle Robert introduces her to the Islamic faith. This led her to join the religion, which is a colossal moment in her life because she grew up strictly a Jehovah's Witness. Lastly, Uncle Robert tells her to “keep making up stories''(Woodson 176). This is important because Jacqueline states many times that storytelling is her passion and is what makes her a good writer, so this interaction was a key moment in her writing career. Jacqueline's dreams and passions would not be the same without these people in her life. Every person teaches her different lessons and morals, and every one of them has been a valued part of creating her perspective.
In Brown Girl Dreaming by Jacqueline Woodson, many people in Jacqueline's life influence her, resulting in her having many different beliefs. She learns and has the understanding that everyone learns differently, that her gift is amazing, and that her talent is worth paying attention to. One of these influences is her sister, Dell. Dell teaches her many things, including how to write her name, eventually opening up paths of success for her. Even though this may not be an important thing to many kids, Jacqueline feels differently about it, feeling a happiness growing inside her when Dell says “Nope” promising Jaqueline that the words will keep coming. Dell teaches her that striving for greatness is something different for everyone. She doesn't say this clearly but Jaqueline comprehends this after seeing that Dell's way of being brilliant is not the only way. This pushes Jaqueline to be better because Dell is very idolized, and always praised by her teachers and everyone around her. Even though this does push Jaqueline, it also makes her feel like she's inadequate, lacking in skills, and that she needs to live up to her sister's reputation. In the poem “gifted,” she says, “I am not gifted. When I read, the words twist twirl across the page,” (Woodson 169) showing how this experience had made her lose self-confidence in herself. Another example of someone who influenced her is her brother, Hope. Hope is the quietest of all of Jacqueline’s siblings, but he has a big passion for investigating the world and this makes Jaqueline feel like there is going to be something that she is really good at too. He always wants to learn more and this rubs off on Jacqueline, showing when she memorizes poems that she just wants to keep going and keep hearing the stories. He also shows her to be passionate about the things she loves when Jacqueline and her family hear Hope sing for the first time. She says, “Maybe, I am thinking, there is something hidden like this, in all of us.” (232), showing that she has hope that she can be something great. Furthermore, another lesson he teaches her is that anyone can touch someone else's heart with their talent no matter who they are or what they believe in. The last example of someone who changes Jaqueline's views is her uncle, Robert Irby. He is very strong-minded, and when he notices that she is making up stories, he thinks that she should keep going, saying, “Keep making up stories.” (176), which seems to be because he sees something in her. He also shows her when he comes back from jail and is converted to Islam, that she doesn't have to believe in just one thing and that everyone is searching for their own Mecca or their own promised land. In addition, he teaches Jaqueline about the ‘Revolution’ and current events and shows her different ways current leaders change the world. He educates her about the unfairness of this time, making Jaqualine want to help change the world too. In the chapter “the revolution”, he says, “Don’t wait for your school to teach you about the revolution. It’s happening in the streets.” (308). He shows her that she has to believe in her dreams to be able to achieve them and that she should be proud of what she is good at, inspiring her and empowering her to become a better person. Overall, many people in Jacqueline's life change how she feels about certain things, shaping who she is and who she wants to be, resulting in her being a person of many beliefs.
In Brown Girl Dreaming there are two very important people that influence Jacqueline Woodson and what she decides to believe in. One example of a person who changed Jacqueline is her grandpa Daddy Gunner. Jacqueline’s Mom, Brother, and sister left their dad when she was young. Because her family left their dad, the kids grandfather is the only dad they ever knew. In turn this makes her grandpa very influential to her. To begin with, her grandfather Daddy Gunner influences her by teaching her to be confident with who she is. For example, her grandfather helps her to become more confident when she is thinking, “And when I sing to him, I’m not just left of the key or right of the tune. He says I sing beautifully” (Woodson 236).Which makes her attached to him even more. In addition he also shows her a new view on religion constantly saying that, “your god is not my god”(123). In addition the religion she follows states that those who don't follow the rules of Jehovah won’t get to the promised land after death. Because her grandfather is not a follower of Jehovah he won’t be with Jacqueline after death and that makes her question her religion and wonders why she has to make a choice between the two. Another person who is as or more important than Daddy Gunner is her grandma Georgina. Georgina is so important when it comes to shaping Jackie’s beliefs. She is important because she tries to teach her to not fight at all. To have faith to accept things as they are. To have faith that God will take care of all things in the next life. This affects her because she wants to fight back and her religion and grandmother are holding her back. The idea of leaving things as they are and letting god take care of them is so different from her grandfather. On the other hand Daddy Gunners  ideas about fighting back are so much different. One example of Daddy Gunners ideas about fighting back are shown while he is telling Jacqueline and her siblings about the marching in Carolina and he says,”You can't just put your fist up. You have to insist on something gently. Walk towards a thing slowly.” Another way that Georgina influences Jackie’s is by making her whole week revolve around religion. This teaches her about discipline and dedication and to stick with things which makes her a better writer and person. In conclusion her grandmother and Daddy Gunner Live such similar but different lives.  Jacquline ends up becoming a mix of both her grandma and grandpa like believing in nonviolence and “power to the people.”
Brown Girl Dreaming, Jacqueline Woodson describes how, in her life, she is influenced by her grandfather and her grandmother in sometimes conflicting ways. Her grandparents on her mother’s side play a big role in how she grew up, since she lived with them for an extended period of time when she was little, then continues to visit them in the summers. Her grandfather, who Jacqueline and her siblings call ‘Daddy,’ is a hardworking man who cares very much for his family and whom Jacqueline especially feels safe and comfortable with. He believes in taking what he can get by working for it, not by relying on others. When Jacqueline lives with her grandparents after moving away from Ohio, Daddy teaches her about tending to a garden, like his father, who was the son of a slave, taught him. They plant seeds together and enjoy the fruits of their labor once the garden is harvested. As they are working together, Jacqueline thinks, “So this is what he believes in, your hands in the cool dirt, until the earth gives back to you all that you have asked of it,” (Woodson 48). Because of this ‘take what you can’ independent mentality that he has, he does not worship a god as others around him do. Instead of going to church or Bible study, he would prefer to smoke and play music with his brother. He believes strongly in living in the moment, and doing what is possible now, not focusing on plans for years into the future. In the Jehovah’s Witnesses sect that Jaqueline, her siblings, and her grandmother are a part of, it is all about doing God’s work so that they can be brought along to the new world when the world that they are living in now is destroyed by God. All of the ‘non-believers,’ like Daddy, will be killed in the process. They are all preparing for a life that could be decades in the future, whereas Daddy would rather work hard, treat everyone well, and live the life he is living now. “I work hard, he says. I treat people how I want to be treated. God sees this. God knows.” (124.) On the flip side, his wife, Georgiana, who is also Jacqueline’s grandmother, is a very faithful Witness and maintains that everything that she and her family needs will be eventually provided by God. “Our grandmother tells us Everything we do is part of God’s plan. Every breath you breathe is the gift God is giving you.” (129) She is the reason that Jaqueline, Hope, Odella, and Roman are Witnesses themselves. Their strict schedule serving the Lord’s wishes is kept alive by Georgiana as well, teaching the kids about discipline and patience that they also use later in life. Keeping her grandchildren safe from harm and out of trouble is also always at the forefront of her mind. She prohibits friendships with the neighbors, and ends up being correct about them, as they were mean to Jacqueline. She is definitely a caring person who loves her family and God. However, Jacqueline loves both of her grandparents, and while she is a Jehovah’s Witness herself, she doesn’t want to believe in a potential world where her grandfather could neither live nor ever be accepted. While some of these ideas are conflicting to Jacqueline, there is a common theme of caring and loving natures in both of her grandparents. She grows up to become a person that treats people the same, regardless of their race or physical appearance. Even through the contradicting morals and religious affiliations that she has, she realizes that she can accept both of them as true, understanding that the ability of those beliefs coexisting in her makes up important parts of her identity. She can live in the moment, and still look forward to the future. This realization of both ideas being true at the same time leads her to believe in other slightly differing concepts. For example, she believes in both the nonviolence movement and the Black Panther movement. In conclusion, because of her exposure to personalities and the beliefs of people like her grandmother and grandfather, Jaqueline Woodson has a unique identity and perspective of the world.
In Brown Girl Dreaming by Jacqueline Woodson, writing for Jacqueline acts as her favorite pastime, as well as a world of infinite possibilities. To begin, Jacqueline is mesmerized by anything to do with writing and literature. An example of this fascination is when she receives her first notebook, representing the start of her writing career, and simultaneously captivating Jacqueline in its pages as she simply holds and stares at its contents. “Hard not to smile as I held it, felt the breeze as I fanned the pages. . . . For days and days, I could only sniff the pages, hold the notebook close, listen to the sound the papers made,” (Woodson, 154). In addition, Jacqueline becomes very emotional when people read poems or stories to her. For example, when she hears the enchanting words of Robert Frost’s “Birches,” she sheds tears, showing her vulnerability to beautiful poetry. Another example of literature mesmerizing Jacqueline is when she explains how stories and simple words can settle deep inside Jacqueline’s brain, becoming part of her, allowing her to remember those stories long after she stops reading them. Secondly, Jacqueline enjoys creating her own pieces of literature. She loves to make up stories about her life and experiences and tell them to her family and friends, showing her passion for writing and storytelling. These poems also show the love that Jacqueline has for poetry. Another example of Jacqueline’s passion to create literature is when she writes her earliest book, "The Butterfly Poems,” composed of a variety of different poems about butterflies. Lastly, Jacqueline uses writing as a tool to express herself. An example of when she uses this tool is when she is on the bus trip to Dannemora. (The prison where her uncle is being kept.) Jacqueline writes about her feelings and opinions towards her experiences to and at Dannemora itself, using her words to express what she is feeling. Moreover, Jacqueline shows her sympathy for the prisoners in Dannemora through a poem: “Up in the mountains, far from the sea, there’s a place called Dannemora, the men are not free,” (275). A third example of Jacqueline using writing appears when she recites one of her poems to her classmates, where she expresses her passion to fight against discrimination with her words. Her teacher, Ms. Vivo says that Jacqueline is a writer, concluding her journey as a child poet. To summarize, the act of writing for Jacqueline acts as not only her most important passion, but also a world of infinite possibilities.


